Web Design for Web Developers: Build Beautiful Websites!

Typography:

Use font-size between 15 and 25 pixels in body
Use really big fonts(90, 60 and 32 pixels) for headlines and subheaders. Might need to decrease font weight
Use line spacing between 120% and 150% 
Use 45 to 90 characters per line
Use good fonts: 
Sans-Serif - clean, modern, simple, neutral
	Open Sans
	Lato
	Raleway
	Monsterrat
	PT Sans
Serif - traditional, story telling, long reading, good for blogs
	Cardo
	Merriweather
	PT Serif

Use google fonts
For a begginer - use only one typeface
Can use 2 typefaces - more than enough
	http://fontpair.co/ - helps to match fonts

Colours:

Use one base colour
	https://flatuicolors.com/ - useful color picker for flat uis
Create colour pallet for your design
Colour combinations
	https://color.adobe.com/
Use colour to draw attention
	add colout to button, border
Never use black in your design
Choose colours wisely
	
	- Red is a great color to use when power, passion, strength and excitement want to be transmitted. Brighter tones are more energetic and darker shades are more powerful and elegant.
	- Orange draws attention without being as overpowering as red. It means cheerfulness and creativity. Orange can be associated with friendliness, confidence, and courage.
	- Yellow is energetic and gives the feeling of happiness and liveliness. Also, it associates with curiosity, intelligence, brightness, etc.
	- Green is the color of harmony, nature, life and health. Also, it is often associated with money. In design, green can have a balancing and harmonizing effect.
	- Blue means patience, peace, trustworthiness, and stability. It is one of the most beloved colors, especially by men. It is associated with professionalism, trust and honor. That's actually why the biggest social networks use blue.
	- Purple is traditionally associated with power, nobility and wealth. In your design, purple can give a sense of wisdom, royalty, nobility, luxury, and mystery.
	- Pink expresses romance, passivity, care, peace, affection, etc.
	- Brown is the color of relaxation and confidence. Brown means earthiness, nature, durability, comfort, and reliability. 

Images:

Don't put text on image
Overlay the image, to make it darker and then put text on it
Can use colour gradients, remember about colours
Can put text in a box, like white box with transparency
Image blur can work as well
Floor fade - fade image towards black at the bottom and add text there

examples with css:
		
	Overlay the image
	.darken {
	background-image: linear-gradient(rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5), rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5)), url(YOUR IMAGE HERE);
	}
	Example: http://jsfiddle.net/drpak8vy/1/

	Put text in a box
	.text-box {
	background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
	color: #fff;
	display: inline;
	padding: 10px;
	}
	Example: http://jsfiddle.net/qg83m36p/

	Floor fade
	.floor-fade {
	background: linear-gradient(to bottom, rgba(0, 0, 0, 0), rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.6) ), url(YOUR IMAGE HERE);
	}
	Example: http://jsfiddle.net/gRzPF/409/

Icons:

Icons used for features or steps
Can be also used for actions and links, shoud be recognisable and have lable if possible
Shoud be supportive, Icons should not take a center stage
Use Icon fonst whenever possible - can scale

Spacing and layout:
Define Hierarchy:
	Define where you want your audience look first
	Establish a flow that corresponds to your content's message
	Use white spase to build that flow


Bonus Lecture:
Improve web site conversion:

Offer something for free
Action buttons - repeat, highlight it
Pop up boxes - can be annoying but they do work
Show benefits - "Try it for Free"
Don't ask information you don't need
Social proof - customer testemonials, companies logos
Urgency - Limited offers
Scarcity - when 1 left in stock 